Fixed #35859 -- Implement Tasks interface as per DEP 14 (#18627)
django/django: docs/ref/tasks.txt

    def calculate_meaning_of_life() -> int:
        return 42

In the above example, ``calculate_meaning_of_life`` is a :class:`Task` instance.

``task`` accepts a number of arguments, which are used as-is for the ``Task``:

* :attr:`priority <Task.priority>`
* :attr:`backend <Task.backend>`
* :attr:`queue_name <Task.queue_name>`
* :attr:`enqueue_on_commit <Task.enqueue_on_commit>`

If the task is not valid, according to the backend,
:exc:`django.tasks.exceptions.InvalidTaskError` is raised.

.. class:: Task

An class representing a task to be run in the background. Tasks should be
defined using the :func:`task` decorator.

Attributes of ``Task`` cannot be modified.

.. attribute:: Task.priority

    The priority of the task. Priorities must be between -100 and 100, where
    larger numbers are higher priority, and will be run sooner.

    By default, tasks are enqueued with a priority of 0.

.. attribute:: Task.backend

    The alias of the backend the task should be enqueued to.

.. attribute:: Task.queue_name

    The name of the queue the task will be enqueued on to. Defaults to
    ``"default"``.

    This must match a queue defined in :setting:`QUEUES <TASKS-QUEUES>`.

> .. attribute:: Task.run_after

Author: `run_after` can't be set as a top-level attribute, because I agree it's silly. However, it needs to be an attribute so `.using` can work.

> .. attribute:: Task.run_after

Reviewer: If we have something akin to `.enqueue_message` (as I proposed)/`.apply_async` then this problem goes away. You would just pass along `run_after` when you enqueue the message, and `Task` does not have a `run_after` attribute that gets special cased as being a task attribute that _can't_ be set as a top-level attribute.

Won't insist on this.

> .. attribute:: Task.run_after

Author: `.enqueue` intentionally passes all its arguments to the task to make typing easier. I'd like to keep that. Having a uniqued `.enqueue_using` for example may also be possible, but would affect typing, and be more than 1 way to achieve the same thing, with no notable benefits.

    :exc:`ResultDoesNotExist <django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist>`
    is raised.

    If the backend does not support ``get_result``, :exc:`NotImplementedError`
    is raised.

.. method:: Task.aget_result(*args, **kwargs)

    The ``async`` variant of :meth:`get_result <Task.get_result>`.

Task results
============

.. class:: ResultStatus

    An Enum representing the status of a :class:`TaskResult`.

.. attribute:: ResultStatus.NEW

    The :class:`Task` has not been run.

.. attribute:: ResultStatus.RUNNING

    The :class:`Task` is currently being executed.

.. attribute:: ResultStatus.FAILED

    The :class:`Task` raised an exception during execution, or was unable
    to start.

.. attribute:: ResultStatus.COMPLETE

    The :class:`Task` has finished executing successfully.

.. class:: TaskResult

The ``TaskResult`` stores the information about a specific execution of a
:class:`Task`.

Attributes of ``TaskResult`` cannot be modified.

.. attribute:: TaskResult.task

    The :class:`Task` the result was enqueued for.

.. attribute:: TaskResult.id

    A unique identifier for the result, which can be passed to
    :meth:`Task.get_result`.

>     The id must be a UUID4, represented as a dashed string.

Author: On reflection, that might be better. Alternatively, perhaps the specification for what the id is should be removed, instead saying it must be unique, and at most `n` characters? That means if a queue uses a random string already, it doesn't need complex casting.

>     The id must be a UUID4, represented as a dashed string.

Reviewer: Yeah I don't really feel strongly about what kind of ID is used (and I think it's OK to say that IDs are backend-defined).

One thing to consider though, is that people might store IDs in their databases, so they'll often need to know what the shape of them are. At least some loose bounds. This could be backend-defined, but in that case backends should specify it.

Aside: UUID objects from Python are pretty easy to throw around. Just pass a UUID string to the constructor... going from UUID to string just involves calling str.

>     The id must be a UUID4, represented as a dashed string.

Reviewer: "String of at most n characters" perhaps (just to make sure people actually use varchar instead of char or whatever"), but agreed.

.. class:: BaseTaskBackend

``BaseTaskBackend`` is the parent class for all task backends.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.get_result(result_id)

    Retrieve a result by its id. If the result does not exist,
    :exc:`ResultDoesNotExist <django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist>`
    is raised.

    If the backend does not support ``get_result``, :exc:`NotImplementedError`
    is raised.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.aget_result(result_id)

    The ``async`` variant of :meth:`BaseTaskBackend.get_result`.

Features
~~~~~~~~

Some backends may not support all features Django provides. It's possible to
identifying the supported functionality of a backend, and potentially
changing behavior accordingly.

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_defer

    Whether the backend supports enqueueing tasks to be
    executed after a specific time using the ``run_after`` attribute.

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_async_task

    Whether the backend supports enqueueing async functions (coroutines).

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_get_result

    Whether the backend supports retrieving task results from another thread
    after they have been enqueued.

> Available backends

Reviewer 2: Should each backend clarify what they support based on the list of supported task concepts (eg. `supports_defer: Yes|No`)

=====
Tasks

> =====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=====

.. versionadded:: 6.0
```

.. module:: django.tasks
   :synopsis: Django's built-in background task system.

Task definition
===============

.. function:: task

> A decorator defining a :class:`Task`::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A decorator that defines a :class:`Task`::
```

    from django.tasks import task

    @task
    def calculate_meaning_of_life() -> int:

>         return 42

Reviewer 3: The `calculate_meaning_of_life` is the main documented example. I think it would make sense to have a more realistic example to help demonstrate when you would use a task. So I think we should have either the example to always be sending an email (or something similar), or the main examples to be sending emails (and then others can be simpler)

In the above example, ``calculate_meaning_of_life`` is a :class:`Task` instance.

``task`` accepts a number of arguments, which are used as-is for the ``Task``:

* :attr:`priority <Task.priority>`
* :attr:`backend <Task.backend>`
* :attr:`queue_name <Task.queue_name>`
* :attr:`enqueue_on_commit <Task.enqueue_on_commit>`

> If the Task is not valid, according to the backend,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the ``Task`` is not valid, according to the backend,
```
I would prefer the "Task" to have code quotation (applied everywhere) or be a link to the Task class

:exc:`django.tasks.exceptions.InvalidTaskError` is raised.

.. class:: Task

> An class representing a Task to be run in the background. Tasks should be
> defined using the :func:`task` decorator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Represents a task to be run in the background. Tasks should be defined using
the :func:`task` decorator.
```

Attributes of ``Task`` cannot be modified.

.. attribute:: Task.priority

>     The priority of the Task. Priorities must be between -100 and 100, where
>     larger numbers are higher priority, and will be run sooner.
> 
>     By default, Tasks are enqueued with a priority of 0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The priority of the ``Task``. Priorities must be between -100 and 100,
    where larger numbers are higher priority, and will be run sooner. Defaults
    to 0.
```

.. attribute:: Task.backend

>     The alias of the backend the Task should be enqueued to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The alias of the backend the ``Task`` should be enqueued to. Defaults to
    ``"default"``.

    This must match a backend defined in :setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>`.
```
(aligns to the one below)

.. attribute:: Task.queue_name

    The name of the queue the Task will be enqueued on to. Defaults to
    ``"default"``.

    This must match a queue defined in :setting:`QUEUES <TASKS-QUEUES>`.

.. attribute:: Task.run_after

>     The earliest time the Task will be executed, or ``None`` to have no time set.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The earliest time the ``Task`` will be executed, or ``None`` to have no
    time set. Defaults to ``None``.
```
I think I'd want a bit more about what happens with this. So when the task could be executed, but it is not past run_after, then...

.. attribute:: Task.enqueue_on_commit

    Whether the Task should be enqueued when the transaction commits successfully,

>     or immediately.

Reviewer 3: This isn't clear what transaction it's referring to. I think there should be a link to the reference `task_transactions` for "more details".

    By default, the behavior of the backend's
    :setting:`ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT <TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT>` is used.

.. attribute:: Task.name

    An identifier for a Task. Potentially useful for debugging.

>     A Task's name is not necessarily unique.

Reviewer 3: I think this is the name of the function that was decorated?

.. method:: Task.using()

>     Create a new Task with modified defaults. The existing Task is left unchanged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Creates a new ``Task`` with modified defaults. The existing ``Task`` is
    left unchanged.
```
(nit) I prefer the tense change and would apply this in a lot of the definitions (Enqueues..., Retrieves...)

    If the Task has not finished, ``ValueError`` is raised. If the Task finished
    successfully, the traceback is ``None``.

.. attribute:: TaskResult.return_value

    The return value from the Task function.

    If the Task did not finish successfully, :exc:`ValueError` is raised.

.. method:: TaskResult.refresh

    Refresh the result's attributes from the queue store.

.. method:: TaskResult.arefresh

    The ``async`` variant of :meth:`TaskResult.refresh`.

.. attribute:: TaskResult.is_finished

    Whether the Task has finished (successfully or not).

Backends
========

Base backend
------------

.. module:: django.tasks.backends.base

.. class:: BaseTaskBackend

``BaseTaskBackend`` is the parent class for all Task backends.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.get_result(result_id)

    Retrieve a result by its id. If the result does not exist,
    :exc:`ResultDoesNotExist <django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist>`
    is raised.

    If the backend does not support ``get_result``, :exc:`NotImplementedError`
    is raised.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.aget_result(result_id)

    The ``async`` variant of :meth:`BaseTaskBackend.get_result`.

> Features
> ~~~~~~~~
> 
> Some backends may not support all features Django provides. It's possible to
> identifying the supported functionality of a backend, and potentially
> changing behavior accordingly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Feature flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some backends may not support all features Django provides. It's possible to
identify the supported functionality of a backend, and change behavior
accordingly.
```

Reviewer 3: I think I would move this section to be below "Available backends"

Author: Sphinx isn't really happy with this. The title needs to be under the `django.tasks.backends.base` module.

 04516776dec37e42992f694c3c9edbdc5a19185c reverse the change. I'm not super familiar with Sphinx, so help appreciated!

Reviewer 3: I think we can leave it but I am wondering if we should have things like `.. attribute:: ImmediateBackend.supports_get_result`. It's duplicate information but it means if things are complex, the need for footnotes is reduced and it's cleaner for things like `.. versionchanged` notes in future :thinking: 
I'm not sure

.. class:: BaseTaskBackend

``BaseTaskBackend`` is the parent class for all Task backends.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.get_result(result_id)

    Retrieve a result by its id. If the result does not exist,
    :exc:`ResultDoesNotExist <django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist>`
    is raised.

    If the backend does not support ``get_result``, :exc:`NotImplementedError`
    is raised.

.. method:: BaseTaskBackend.aget_result(result_id)

    The ``async`` variant of :meth:`BaseTaskBackend.get_result`.

Feature flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some backends may not support all features Django provides. It's possible to
identify the supported functionality of a backend, and potentially change
behavior accordingly.

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_defer

    Whether the backend supports enqueueing Tasks to be
    executed after a specific time using the ``run_after`` attribute.

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_async_task

    Whether the backend supports enqueueing async functions (coroutines).

.. attribute:: BaseTaskBackend.supports_get_result

    Whether the backend supports retrieving ``Task`` results from another thread
    after they have been enqueued.

> The below table notes which backends support which features:
> 
> ======================= ================ ====================
> Feature                 ``DummyBackend`` ``ImmediateBackend``
> ======================= ================ ====================
> ``supports_defer``      Yes              No
> ``supports_async_task`` Yes              Yes
> ``supports_get_result`` No               No [#fimmediateresult]_
> ======================= ================ ====================
> 

Reviewer 3: (added some links)
```suggestion
The below table notes which of the :ref:`built-in backends
<task-available-backends>` support which features:

============================ ====================== ==========================
Feature                      :class:`.DummyBackend` :class:`.ImmediateBackend`
============================ ====================== ==========================
:attr:`.supports_defer`      Yes                    No
:attr:`.supports_async_task` Yes                    Yes
:attr:`.supports_get_result` No                     No [#fimmediateresult]_
============================ ====================== ==========================

.. _task-available-backends:
```

.. attribute:: Task.priority

    The priority of the ``Task``. Priorities must be between -100 and 100,
    where larger numbers are higher priority, and will be run sooner. Defaults
    to 0.

.. attribute:: Task.backend

    The alias of the backend the ``Task`` should be enqueued to. Defaults
    to ``"default"``.

    This must match a backend defined in :setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>`.

.. attribute:: Task.queue_name

    The name of the queue the ``Task`` will be enqueued on to. Defaults to
    ``"default"``.

    This must match a queue defined in :setting:`QUEUES <TASKS-QUEUES>`.

.. attribute:: Task.run_after

    The earliest time the ``Task`` will be executed, or ``None`` to have no time set.

    Defaults to ``None``.

.. attribute:: Task.enqueue_on_commit

    Whether the ``Task`` should be enqueued when the :ref:`<transaction <task_transactions>`
    commits successfully, or immediately.

    By default, the behavior of the backend's
    :setting:`ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT <TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT>` is used.

.. attribute:: Task.name

    An identifier for a ``Task``. Potentially useful for debugging.

    A Task's name is not necessarily unique.

>     By default, this is is the name of the function decorated with :func:`task`.

Reviewer 4: "By default" is confusing, since there is no way to set or change it (correct me if I'm wrong).

BTW, I do think it would be nice to allow to set it (in `@task` and `using`). If you prefer not, then perhaps just remove it and document `module_path`?

=====

> Tasks

Reviewer 3: Ok so never lower case, so "a Task backend"?

The below table notes which of the :ref:`built-in backends
<task-available-backends>` support which features:

============================ ======================= ===========================
Feature                      :class:`.DummyBackend`  :class:`.ImmediateBackend`
============================ ======================= ===========================
:attr:`.supports_defer`      Yes                     No
:attr:`.supports_async_task` Yes                     Yes
:attr:`.supports_get_result` No                      No [#fnimmediateresult]_
:attr:`.supports_priority`   Yes [#fndummypriority]_ Yes [#fnimmediatepriority]_
============================ ======================= ===========================

.. _task-available-backends:

Available backends
------------------

Immediate backend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: django.tasks.backends.immediate

.. class:: ImmediateBackend

    The :ref:`immediate backend <immediate-task-backend>` executes Tasks
    immediately, rather than in the background.

Dummy backend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: django.tasks.backends.dummy

.. class:: DummyBackend

    The :ref:`dummy backend <dummy-task-backend>` doesn't execute enqueued

>     Tasks at all, instead stores task results for later use.

Reviewer 5: OH it reads so awkwardly for me `instead storing`, but will incorporate! Thanks for looking.
